---
layout: home
title: Home
---

Golf is a web application server. It provides a way to build and deploy JavaScript (JS) driven webapps without sacrificing accessibility to JS-disabled browsers. By making dynamic, JS generated content fully accessible, Golf apps are designed from the ground up as clientside applications, and take advantage of a powerful, rich JS runtime environment. "More...":/overview/

h2(#news). Latest News "(extra)archive":/news.html

<notextile>
  <ul class="posts toc">
    {% for post in site.categories.news limit:3 %}
      <li><span>{{ post.date | date_to_string }}</span> &raquo; <a href="{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }}</a></li>
    {% endfor %}
  </ul>
</notextile>

h2(#getting-started). Getting Started "(extra)example apps":/example-apps.html

# "Install Golf On Your Workstation":/install-golf-on-your-workstation/
# "Hello, World: Basic Usage And The Golf Dev Environment":/examples/hello-world-basic-usage-and-the-golf-dev-environment/
# "A Simple Component":/examples/a-simple-component/
# "Deploy Your App To A Servlet Container":/deploy-your-app-to-a-servlet-container/

h2(#common-tasks). Common Tasks "(extra)more":/faq.html

# "(x)Referencing Files On The Server":/referencing-files-on-the-server/
# "(x)App Entry Points, Deep Linking, And History Support":/app-entry-points-deep-linking-and-history-support/
# "Handling POST Data And Forms":/examples/handling-post-data-and-forms/
# "(x)Communicating With A Backend Web Service":/communicating-with-a-backend-web-service/
# "(x)Known Issues/Limitations":/known-issues-limitations/

h2(#golf-reference). Golf Reference
  
# "Conventions 1: Directory Structure And Special Files":/conventions-1-directory-structure-and-special-files/
# "Conventions 2: Global Variables And Reserved Names":/conventions-2-global-variables-and-reserved-names/
# "(x)Golf's Clientside MVC Framework":/golfs-clientside-mvc-framework/
# "(x)The Golf jQuery Plugin: The Clientside Environment":/the-golf-jquery-plugin-the-clientside-environment/
# "(x)The Component Architecture":/the-component-architecture/
# "(x)App And Component Resources":/app-and-component-resources/
# "(x)Plugins: Extending jQuery In Golf":/plugins-extending-jquery-in-golf/
# "(x)Mixins: Extending The Component API":/mixins-extending-the-component-api/
# "(x)Libraries And Standalone Scripts":/libraries-and-standalone-scripts/

h2(#technical). Technical
  
# "(x)How JavaScript Proxying Works In Golf":/how-javascript-proxying-works-in-golf/
# "(x)How Golf Detects Whether JavaScript Is Enabled":/how-golf-detects-whether-javascript-is-enabled/
# "(x)Search Engine Optimization And Golf Apps":/search-engine-optimization-and-golf-apps/
# "(x)Security And Golf Apps":/security-and-golf-apps/
# "(x)Golf Server Architecture":/golf-server-architecture/
