---
layout: post
title: "A Simple Component: com.example.HelloWorld"
author: Micha Niskin
---

Golf _components_ are reusable, self contained units from which the MVC views are created. Components are constructed from regular HTML, CSS, and JS. They are instantiated in your JS code and inserted into the DOM using jQuery.

This article goes past the simplistic "Hello, World":http://golf.github.com/hello-world-basic-usage-and-the-golf-dev-environment/ example, and will demonstrate a simple MVC view in addition to the controller.

h2. Create The Component Directory Structure

Before we can start writing components we must first create the _components_ directory in the application root directory. This is the folder where all of the application's components must be located. Let's call our example application _golf-example_.

bc. mkdir golf-example
cd golf-example
mkdir components

Next, we will create the _components/com/example/HelloWorld_ directory.

bc. mkdir -p components/com/example/HelloWorld

This is similar to Java's package system; components in the _com/example/_ directory will be in the _com.example_ namespace.

h2. Give The Component Some HTML And JavaScript, And Write A Controller

The component is defined in an HTML file, _HelloWorld.html_. This is where the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript will be. Create the file _components/com/example/HelloWorld.html_, with the following contents:

{% highlight html linenos %}
<div>
  <style type="text/golf"></style>
  <script type="text/golf">
    function() {
      $(".container").append("<h1>Hello, world!</h1>");
    }
  </script>
  <div class="container"></div>
</div>
{% endhighlight %}

Now all that remains is to write a simple controller for our application.

Create the _controller.js_ file:

{% highlight javascript linenos %}
$.golf.controller = [
  { route: ".*",
    action: function(container, params) {
      container.empty().append(new Component.com.example.HelloWorld());
    }
  }
];
{% endhighlight %}

Okay. Now it's time to test it out!

h2. Test The Application In Dev Mode

Start up the Golf dev mode server, like this:

bc. golf .

Then, open a browser and navigate to 


